---
layout: post
title:  "13: Read Out Loud"
date:   2014-02-04
categories: projects
---

Adults lacking basic English skills in the United States often enroll in English language programs offered at local public schools, libraries, and community centers because they want to be able to improve their job prospects and engage in civic life. For parents struggling with basic English, their desire to learn the language is also fueled by their interest in their children’s learning and development. If interest in their children's learning is a strong motivating factor, then how can we engage the parent and child in a peer-learning experience, where they learn English together?

This project centers on the design and study of the learning experience facilitated by "Read Out Loud," a mobile application designed to support parents who are learning English to read storybooks with their children. The mobile application and the context of its use provides a new interface to helpful tools such as the ability to hear the text read out loud to help with pronunciation of unfamiliar sounds and look up words in a learner’s native language.

<br>
<center>
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/109415916" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>
<br>

I am currently working on developing a set of principles for designing technology that creates affordances for adult learning, in particular for parents trying to improve their English skills. This project builds on an iterative design process that includes two field tests of parents using the Read Out Loud application while reading with their children. Through observation and interviews, I investigate how technologies like Read Out Loud can be designed to motivate and augment the family reading experience, and how other factors, such as number and ages of children, or family member's comfort with mobile devices, may influence the use and interaction with the technology.
<br><br>
Below is footage from the first round of user testing with the Harborside Family School.

<br>
<center>
     <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/131668240" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>
<br>

* For more information and updates, check out the project site: [http://learn.media.mit.edu/mlw/read-out-loud/](http://learn.media.mit.edu/mlw/read-out-loud/)
